♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[Jay] Look at all
this coloring stuff.
I love coloring.
Me, too.
Today is the First Annual
Acorn Springs
Coloring Extravaganza!
It's my way to make
new visitors feel welcome!
But so far, no one's come.
[wind blowing]
Huh? What about
that lizard over there?
[Bean]
I've never seen him before.
[gasps]
Our first visitor!
[Rumy laughs]
Where's Rumy going?
Let's find out. Come on!
Welcome to Acorn Springs!
Would you like to color with me?
Oh, oh, oh!
I've got a cookie for you!
Oh, my! Someone new? Goodness.
Where'd he go? Hello there!
Welcome
to the Coloring Extravaganza!
Where are you?
Where'd who go?
The lizard.
Rumy was going to invite him
to an Extrava...
something.
Rumy's our brand-new
Official Acorn Springs Welcomer!
I've got cookies and crayons
so new friends
can color with us,
and I rehearsed
what I was going to say.
"Welcome to Acorn Springs!
We're very glad you're here!"
[chuckles]
But the lizard just ran away.
If he's new to Acorn Springs,
he might be a little shy.
New places can be scary.
You're right.
We need to find that lizard
so I can make him feel welcome
here in Acorn Springs.
We'll find
your missing lizard, Rumy.
That's a promise.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
[Toby] When you're looking
for one tiny lizard,
Acorn Springs
can seem really big.
He's out there. We need
to make sure he feels welcome.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this!
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
So when you first saw the little
green lizard, it was over here?
Uh-huh, and it's gone!
Hmm.
There's a footprint here
in the mud.
That's a clue.
[camera clicks]
[gasps] Look!
Another lizard!
And this one's blue?
Maybe that blue lizard will know
where the green one went.
[laughs]
Welcome to Acorn Springs!
Do you like to color?
Oh, no!
Where'd he go?
He's gone.
So now there's
a blue lizard, too.
Two lizards
come to Acorn Springs
on the very same day.
And neither one of them
wants to be part
of my Coloring Extravaganza.
Is there anything we can do?
Sure, Millie!
If Rumy can tell you what
the green lizard looked like,
you can make a poster.
We can show it
around Acorn Springs.
While you are making the poster,
Toby and I will track
the lizard's path
-back to the blueberry bush.
-[all] Mm-hmm.
Okay, we've got work to do.
[WhyTab beeping]
[gasps] Teri, look!
Fresh blueberries
right where the blue lizard
came out of the blueberry bush.
Which means there should be
some blue footprints
right nearby.
[gasps]
There are! Look.
They must belong
to the blue lizard,
because they go to the rock.
Here. Take a look.
This is the picture I took of
the green lizard's footprints.
They're exactly alike.
The green lizard
and the blue lizard
have the very same footprints.
That's definitely a clue.
Just a little bit more green
on this one, and we're done.
Wow! So this is
how the lizards look like?
Yeah. Millie did a great job
drawing them.
Why, thank you.
Well, they definitely don't look
like any lizards I've seen
in Acorn Springs before.
Me, neither.
Because they're visiting.
That's why
we have to find them both.
Then we'll have
two new friends to color with.
So did I miss anything?
Wait. Both lizards
were wearing hats, red ones.
Identical red hats.
I can see a lizard
wearing a hat,
but two lizards
wearing the same hat?
Hmm. Huh?
All done!
They're perfect!
Two lizards with the same hat
and the same footprints.
We've got
lots of facts to follow.
It's time to use the clues.
If we follow the facts we know,
Rumy saw a green lizard
over here
by all these big, green leaves.
Green lizard, green leaves.
Yup. And the blue lizard was
over here by the blueberry bush.
The blue lizard
was by the blueberry bush.
Except for their color,
they're exactly the same.
[gasps]
Toby, what if it's
actually only one lizard?
But it can't be.
One was green, and one was blue.
Unless our little lizard
can change color!
And look!
There he is by the oranges!
Welcome to Acorn Springs!
Oh, my!
Look! He's changing color.
What kind of lizard
can change color?
A chameleon. Look!
Chameleons can change
the color of their skin
to any color they want.
So our two missing lizards
are actually just one chameleon.
That's amazing!
But now he's gone again,
so he won't come to my Annual
Coloring Extravaganza.
Sure he will, Rumy.
We have to get him
to come to us.
I think I know how to do that.
Ta-da!
[Jay] That's the most colorful
set of colors I've ever seen!
Oh, If that chameleon
likes to change color,
he's going
to love this for sure!
Mr. Chameleon,
I've got something for you.
[bush rustling]
Oh, my.
Oh, my. Oh, my. Oh, my.
That is lovely. May I?
Go ahead.
My friend Toby made it for you.
[laughs]
This is fun.
Hi, Mr. Chameleon. I'm Bean.
It's okay. Don't be shy.
We're all really nice.
Yeah, we just want
to be friends.
Eh, I've never been
to Acorn Springs.
Sometimes I get scared
when I'm in a brand-new place.
Ah, that happens to me, too.
I'm sorry I scared you.
I'm Rumy.
Would you like to color with me?
Would I? Of course I would!
Ha ha!
[all laugh]
-Whoa!
-Wait!
Before we do anything,
I'd like to welcome you
to Acorn Springs.
We're very glad you're here.
Now the Acorn Springs
Coloring Extravaganza can begin!
I'm so excited!
Now let's color!
-Yay!
-Color time!
Say, "Colors"!
-Colors!
[camera clicks]
Every lizard
was a different color,
but they were the same guy.
We really had to use the clues
on this one.
We got a new friend
in Acorn Springs.
Days like this,
I love being a detective.
Me, too.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] The Case
of the Counterfeit Chameleon
is officially closed.
Yo ho ho!
This is the key
that I like best,
'cause this key
opens a treasure chest!
[gasps]
Oops!
[panting]
Ah! Oops.
Hold on.
[laughs]
Gotcha!
Wow! Look at that rock.
It looks like a pirate ship!
[laughing]
Whoa! Whoa!
Ow!
[chuckles]
Where's that key?
Oh! There it is.
That's funny.
Key is stuck to these rocks.
Ahh! Now the rocks
are stuck together!
Whoa-ho-ho-ho!
They're like magnets...
but they're not magnets.
They're rocks, magic rocks!
Ah, I gotta show these
to everybody.
Arr, me buckos!
How goes Pirate Day?
Not going at all! Our hats
and cardboard swords are locked
in the Captain Molasses
Pirate Treasure Chest!
We can't get them!
Where have ye stowed the key?
Arr! Pirate's mate
Rumy MacPiggish has the key.
He's out exploring.
[Rumy] Everybody,
you won't believe what I found!
I found
the most amazing rocks!
They come together!
Then they pull apart
all on their own, like magic.
Arr! That's great news.
Have you got the key
to the treasure chest?
Uh, th-the key? Of course!
[gasps] Oh.
I guess I must have put it down
when I found
these awesome rocks.
So let's go back and get it.
Okay! Follow me!
Hmm.
Uh, there is one thing.
I don't remember
where I came from.
I guess I was so excited
to show you my rocks,
I wasn't paying attention.
[groans]
I'm sorry.
-That's okay, Rumy.
-If we don't have the key,
we can't open
the treasure chest.
We can't get to our pirate hats,
and that means no Pirate Day!
We have to find that key, like
a hunt for pirates' treasure.
Arrre you with me, mateys?
Ready to hunt
for the missing key?
-[all] Aye, aye, Captain Teri.
-[Bean growls]
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
[Toby]
Until we find the key,
no one can unlock
the treasure chest.
If nobody can get
to their pirate hats
and cardboard swords,
we can't have our Pirate Day.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
So which way did you go
when you began your walk
this morning?
This way, uh, I think.
No, wait. Uh, this way!
Hmm. No.
It was definitely
this way, maybe.
Aw, that doesn't help, does it?
That's okay, Rumy.
There are always clues to use.
Like this pine needle.
Pine needles
come from pine trees.
I remember pine trees!
Heh. I bumped into one.
That means
you were in Pine Grove.
But how do we get there
from here?
Toby and I made
a map of Acorn Springs.
We can use this,
but I'm not exactly sure
how to follow it.
It's easy. We just have to
make sure it's lined up right.
See that arrow in the corner?
It's supposed
to be pointing north.
Which way is north?
In Acorn Springs, the mountains
are always to our east.
But if you want to know exactly,
you need a compass.
Like this one!
[all] Huh? [groaning]
Oops. [chuckles]
Let me try that again.
Nope.
Aha!
How does it know
where north is?
The Earth is like a magnet.
The needle in the compass
is a magnet, too,
so the red end
always points north.
[Teri] You line up
north on the map
with north
on the compass, and...
The pine grove is that way!
I love apples. I don't think
they grow on pine trees.
I think apples
grow on apple trees.
Mm, this isn't
where we were supposed to be.
If our map is lined up right,
we should be in Pine Grove.
No wonder we're lost.
The needle on the compass
isn't pointing north.
It's pointing at Rumy.
[gasps]
Why is it doing that?
[gasping]
Make it stop!
It's okay, Rumy.
Wait. What's in your pockets?
Oh. Mm, I've got marbles and
a snack and a red marker and--
Ha ha! My magic rocks.
[laughs]
Look what they can do!
Wow!
They really are like magic!
Your rocks are like magnets.
See? When you turn the rocks
one way, they pull together.
But if you turn one around,
they push apart. See?
How do we make
the compass work again?
Rumy just needs
to move back a little.
The magnet of the compass is
pointing towards Rumy's rocks,
but if he moves away...
Like this?
That's perfect, Rumy.
Thanks!
There we go!
Onward, mateys!
-Arr!
-Yippee!
Here we are. Pine Grove.
Ah, this is it!
I was definitely here!
Great.
So which trail did you take?
[laughs]
Uh, it was this one!
[stammers]
Or m-maybe it was this one.
Oh, I don't remember.
Well, If you went this way,
you'd be covered
with this red dust.
But Rumy's not dusty at all!
Rumy and the key
went down this trail.
See? It's not so dusty.
Come on.
[gasps]
I remember this place.
There's a rock there that looks
like a pirate ship. Ha! See?
When I saw it,
I grabbed the key,
then went to the edge
to look, like this.
And then what happened?
Hmm. I don't remember. I--
[yelps]
[Rumy]
Ohh!
[groans]
[laughs] Right.
I tripped over a rock
and dropped the key.
Wait a second.
I just landed on something
hard and key-shaped.
[gasps]
The key! I found it!
Arrgh! You've done it, matey!
Now let's use our map
to sail for Acorn Springs!
Wait. We need
to line the map up again.
I got all turned around
in the fall.
Can I see the compass?
[gasps]
Oh, no. It's broken.
The compass
isn't gonna help us now.
If we can't follow the map,
we can't get home,
and that means we can't open
the treasure chest,
-even if we did find the key!
-Unless we make a new compass.
Can we do that?
Sure we can,
with Rumy's magic rocks.
Remember how the compass pointed
toward your rocks, Rumy?
I do. My rocks
are super awesome,
just like magnets.
Your rocks
are called lodestones.
They're not just like magnets.
They are magnets.
Anything a magnet can do,
they can do, too.
They work just like a compass.
Can I borrow one of them?
Absolutely.
[Toby] And then we use our
new compass to make it perfect.
[Millie] So now the map's
lined up right,
so the treehouse is that way!
Arrgh!
-Let's go home!
-You did it!
[all laughing]
Yo ho!
Now we really are pirates!
Thanks to Rumy's
amazing magnet rocks! Yarrgh!
Go on, me buckos!
Let the next adventure begin!
Pirates, ho!
It's time to sail
the seas of Acorn Springs!
Say, "Arrgh"!
-Arrgh!
[camera clicks]
Finding lodestones
was really cool.
I can't believe
rocks can be magnetic.
I know.
Today turned out to be
the best
pirate treasure hunt ever!
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together] The Case
of the Remarkable Rocks
is officially closed.